conception which the people have reasonably made their measure of value,

would already practically imply danger, ruin, abasement, or at least

relaxation, blindness, or temporary self-forgetfulness; the ideal of

a humanly superhuman welfare and benevolence, which will often enough

appear INHUMAN, for example, when put alongside of all past seriousness

on earth, and alongside of all past solemnities in bearing, word, tone,

look, morality, and pursuit, as their truest involuntary parody—and

WITH which, nevertheless, perhaps THE GREAT SERIOUSNESS only commences,

when the proper interrogative mark is set up, the fate of the soul

changes, the hour-hand moves, and tragedy begins...”



Although the figure of Zarathustra and a large number of the leading

thoughts in this work had appeared much earlier in the dreams and

writings of the author, “Thus Spake Zarathustra” did not actually come

into being until the month of August 1881 in Sils Maria; and it was the

idea of the Eternal Recurrence of all things which finally induced my

brother to set forth his new views in poetic language. In regard to his

first conception of this idea, his autobiographical sketch, “Ecce Homo”,

written in the autumn of 1888, contains the following passage:—



“The fundamental idea of my work—namely, the Eternal Recurrence of

all things—this highest of all possible formulae of a Yea-saying

philosophy, first occurred to me in August 1881. I made a note of the

thought on a sheet of paper, with the postscript: 6,000 feet beyond

men and time! That day I happened to be wandering through the woods

alongside of the lake of Silvaplana, and I halted beside a huge,

pyramidal and towering rock not far from Surlei. It was then that the

thought struck me. Looking back now, I find that exactly two months

previous to this inspiration, I had had an omen of its coming in the

form of a sudden and decisive alteration in my tastes—more particularly

in music. It would even be possible to consider all ‘Zarathustra’ as a

musical composition. At all events, a very necessary condition in its

production was a renaissance in myself of the art of hearing. In a small

mountain resort (Recoaro) near Vicenza, where I spent the spring of

1881, I and my friend and Maestro, Peter Gast—also one who had been

born again—discovered that the phoenix music that hovered over us, wore

lighter and brighter plumes than it had done theretofore.”



During the month of August 1881 my brother resolved to reveal the

teaching of the Eternal Recurrence, in dithyrambic and psalmodic form,
