through the mouth of Zarathustra. Among the notes of this period, we

found a page on which is written the first definite plan of “Thus Spake

Zarathustra”:—



“MIDDAY AND ETERNITY.”



“GUIDE-POSTS TO A NEW WAY OF LIVING.”



Beneath this is written:—



“Zarathustra born on lake Urmi; left his home in his thirtieth year,

went into the province of Aria, and, during ten years of solitude in the

mountains, composed the Zend-Avesta.”



“The sun of knowledge stands once more at midday; and the serpent

of eternity lies coiled in its light—: It is YOUR time, ye midday

brethren.”



In that summer of 1881, my brother, after many years of steadily

declining health, began at last to rally, and it is to this first gush

of the recovery of his once splendid bodily condition that we owe not

only “The Gay Science”, which in its mood may be regarded as a prelude

to “Zarathustra”, but also “Zarathustra” itself. Just as he was

beginning to recuperate his health, however, an unkind destiny brought

him a number of most painful personal experiences. His friends caused

him many disappointments, which were the more bitter to him, inasmuch as

he regarded friendship as such a sacred institution; and for the first

time in his life he realised the whole horror of that loneliness to

which, perhaps, all greatness is condemned. But to be forsaken is

something very different from deliberately choosing blessed loneliness.

How he longed, in those days, for the ideal friend who would thoroughly

understand him, to whom he would be able to say all, and whom he

imagined he had found at various periods in his life from his earliest

youth onwards. Now, however, that the way he had chosen grew ever more

perilous and steep, he found nobody who could follow him: he therefore

created a perfect friend for himself in the ideal form of a majestic

philosopher, and made this creation the preacher of his gospel to the

world.



Whether my brother would ever have written “Thus Spake Zarathustra”
