 according to the first plan sketched in the summer of 1881, if he

had not had the disappointments already referred to, is now an idle

question; but perhaps where “Zarathustra” is concerned, we may also say

with Master Eckhardt: “The fleetest beast to bear you to perfection is

suffering.”



My brother writes as follows about the origin of the first part of

“Zarathustra”:—“In the winter of 1882–83, I was living on the charming

little Gulf of Rapallo, not far from Genoa, and between Chiavari and

Cape Porto Fino. My health was not very good; the winter was cold and

exceptionally rainy; and the small inn in which I lived was so close

to the water that at night my sleep would be disturbed if the sea were

high. These circumstances were surely the very reverse of favourable;

and yet in spite of it all, and as if in demonstration of my belief that

everything decisive comes to life in spite of every obstacle, it was

precisely during this winter and in the midst of these unfavourable

circumstances that my ‘Zarathustra’ originated. In the morning I used to

start out in a southerly direction up the glorious road to Zoagli, which

rises aloft through a forest of pines and gives one a view far out into

the sea. In the afternoon, as often as my health permitted, I walked

round the whole bay from Santa Margherita to beyond Porto Fino. This

spot was all the more interesting to me, inasmuch as it was so dearly

loved by the Emperor Frederick III. In the autumn of 1886 I chanced to

be there again when he was revisiting this small, forgotten world

of happiness for the last time. It was on these two roads that all

‘Zarathustra’ came to me, above all Zarathustra himself as a type;—I

ought rather to say that it was on these walks that these ideas waylaid

me.”



The first part of “Zarathustra” was written in about ten days—that is

to say, from the beginning to about the middle of February 1883. “The

last lines were written precisely in the hallowed hour when Richard

Wagner gave up the ghost in Venice.”



With the exception of the ten days occupied in composing the first part

of this book, my brother often referred to this winter as the hardest

and sickliest he had ever experienced. He did not, however, mean thereby

that his former disorders were troubling him, but that he was suffering

from a severe attack of influenza which he had caught in Santa

Margherita, and which tormented him for several weeks after his arrival
