in Genoa. As a matter of fact, however, what he complained of most was

his spiritual condition—that indescribable forsakenness—to which he

gives such heartrending expression in “Zarathustra”. Even the reception

which the first part met with at the hands of friends and acquaintances

was extremely disheartening: for almost all those to whom he presented

copies of the work misunderstood it. “I found no one ripe for many of my

thoughts; the case of ‘Zarathustra’ proves that one can speak with the

utmost clearness, and yet not be heard by any one.” My brother was very

much discouraged by the feebleness of the response he was given, and as

he was striving just then to give up the practice of taking hydrate

of chloral—a drug he had begun to take while ill with influenza,—the

following spring, spent in Rome, was a somewhat gloomy one for him.

He writes about it as follows:—“I spent a melancholy spring in Rome,

where I only just managed to live,—and this was no easy matter. This

city, which is absolutely unsuited to the poet-author of ‘Zarathustra’,

and for the choice of which I was not responsible, made me inordinately

miserable. I tried to leave it. I wanted to go to Aquila—the opposite

of Rome in every respect, and actually founded in a spirit of enmity

towards that city (just as I also shall found a city some day), as a

memento of an atheist and genuine enemy of the Church—a person very

closely related to me,—the great Hohenstaufen, the Emperor Frederick

II. But Fate lay behind it all: I had to return again to Rome. In the

end I was obliged to be satisfied with the Piazza Barberini, after I had

exerted myself in vain to find an anti-Christian quarter. I fear that

on one occasion, to avoid bad smells as much as possible, I actually

inquired at the Palazzo del Quirinale whether they could not provide a

quiet room for a philosopher. In a chamber high above the Piazza just

mentioned, from which one obtained a general view of Rome and could

hear the fountains plashing far below, the loneliest of all songs

was composed—‘The Night-Song’. About this time I was obsessed by an

unspeakably sad melody, the refrain of which I recognised in the words,

‘dead through immortality.’”



We remained somewhat too long in Rome that spring, and what with the

effect of the increasing heat and the discouraging circumstances already

described, my brother resolved not to write any more, or in any case,

not to proceed with “Zarathustra”, although I offered to relieve him

of all trouble in connection with the proofs and the publisher. When,

however, we returned to Switzerland towards the end of June, and he

found himself once more in the familiar and exhilarating air of the
