mountain, and the crew went ashore to shoot rabbits. About the noontide

hour, however, when the captain and his men were together again, they

saw suddenly a man coming towards them through the air, and a voice said

distinctly: “It is time! It is the highest time!” But when the figure

was nearest to them (it flew past quickly, however, like a shadow, in

the direction of the volcano), then did they recognise with the greatest

surprise that it was Zarathustra; for they had all seen him before

except the captain himself, and they loved him as the people love: in

such wise that love and awe were combined in equal degree.



“Behold!” said the old helmsman, “there goeth Zarathustra to hell!”



About the same time that these sailors landed on the fire-isle, there

was a rumour that Zarathustra had disappeared; and when his friends were

asked about it, they said that he had gone on board a ship by night,

without saying whither he was going.



Thus there arose some uneasiness. After three days, however, there came

the story of the ship’s crew in addition to this uneasiness—and

then did all the people say that the devil had taken Zarathustra. His

disciples laughed, sure enough, at this talk; and one of them said even:

“Sooner would I believe that Zarathustra hath taken the devil.” But at

the bottom of their hearts they were all full of anxiety and longing: so

their joy was great when on the fifth day Zarathustra appeared amongst

them.



And this is the account of Zarathustra’s interview with the fire-dog:



The earth, said he, hath a skin; and this skin hath diseases. One of

these diseases, for example, is called “man.”



And another of these diseases is called “the fire-dog”: concerning HIM

men have greatly deceived themselves, and let themselves be deceived.



To fathom this mystery did I go o’er the sea; and I have seen the truth

naked, verily! barefooted up to the neck.



Now do I know how it is concerning the fire-dog; and likewise concerning

all the spouting and subversive devils, of which not only old women are

afraid.
