mountains, all his joyous creative powers revived, and in a note to me

announcing the dispatch of some manuscript, he wrote as follows: “I have

engaged a place here for three months: forsooth, I am the greatest fool

to allow my courage to be sapped from me by the climate of Italy. Now

and again I am troubled by the thought: WHAT NEXT? My ‘future’ is the

darkest thing in the world to me, but as there still remains a great

deal for me to do, I suppose I ought rather to think of doing this than

of my future, and leave the rest to THEE and the gods.”



The second part of “Zarathustra” was written between the 26th of June

and the 6th July. “This summer, finding myself once more in the sacred

place where the first thought of ‘Zarathustra’ flashed across my mind,

I conceived the second part. Ten days sufficed. Neither for the second,

the first, nor the third part, have I required a day longer.”



He often used to speak of the ecstatic mood in which he wrote

“Zarathustra”; how in his walks over hill and dale the ideas would crowd

into his mind, and how he would note them down hastily in a note-book

from which he would transcribe them on his return, sometimes working

till midnight. He says in a letter to me: “You can have no idea of the

vehemence of such composition,” and in “Ecce Homo” (autumn 1888) he

describes as follows with passionate enthusiasm the incomparable mood in

which he created Zarathustra:—



“—Has any one at the end of the nineteenth century any distinct notion

of what poets of a stronger age understood by the word inspiration? If

not, I will describe it. If one had the smallest vestige of superstition

in one, it would hardly be possible to set aside completely the idea

that one is the mere incarnation, mouthpiece or medium of an almighty

power. The idea of revelation in the sense that something becomes

suddenly visible and audible with indescribable certainty and accuracy,

which profoundly convulses and upsets one—describes simply the matter

of fact. One hears—one does not seek; one takes—one does not ask

who gives: a thought suddenly flashes up like lightning, it comes with

necessity, unhesitatingly—I have never had any choice in the matter.

There is an ecstasy such that the immense strain of it is sometimes

relaxed by a flood of tears, along with which one’s steps either rush

or involuntarily lag, alternately. There is the feeling that one is

completely out of hand, with the very distinct consciousness of an

endless number of fine thrills and quiverings to the very toes;—there
