“Behold, Zarathustra! Even the people learn from thee, and acquire faith

in thy teaching: but for them to believe fully in thee, one thing is

still needful—thou must first of all convince us cripples! Here hast

thou now a fine selection, and verily, an opportunity with more than one

forelock! The blind canst thou heal, and make the lame run; and from

him who hath too much behind, couldst thou well, also, take away a

little;—that, I think, would be the right method to make the cripples

believe in Zarathustra!”



Zarathustra, however, answered thus unto him who so spake: When one

taketh his hump from the hunchback, then doth one take from him his

spirit—so do the people teach. And when one giveth the blind man eyes,

then doth he see too many bad things on the earth: so that he curseth

him who healed him. He, however, who maketh the lame man run, inflicteth

upon him the greatest injury; for hardly can he run, when his vices

run away with him—so do the people teach concerning cripples. And why

should not Zarathustra also learn from the people, when the people learn

from Zarathustra?



It is, however, the smallest thing unto me since I have been amongst

men, to see one person lacking an eye, another an ear, and a third a

leg, and that others have lost the tongue, or the nose, or the head.



I see and have seen worse things, and divers things so hideous, that I

should neither like to speak of all matters, nor even keep silent about

some of them: namely, men who lack everything, except that they have

too much of one thing—men who are nothing more than a big eye, or a big

mouth, or a big belly, or something else big,—reversed cripples, I call

such men.



And when I came out of my solitude, and for the first time passed over

this bridge, then I could not trust mine eyes, but looked again and

again, and said at last: “That is an ear! An ear as big as a man!” I

looked still more attentively—and actually there did move under the ear

something that was pitiably small and poor and slim. And in truth this

immense ear was perched on a small thin stalk—the stalk, however, was a

man! A person putting a glass to his eyes, could even recognise further

a small envious countenance, and also that a bloated soullet dangled at

the stalk. The people told me, however, that the big ear was not only a

man, but a great man, a genius. But I never believed in the people when
