is a depth of happiness in which the painfullest and gloomiest do not

operate as antitheses, but as conditioned, as demanded in the sense of

necessary shades of colour in such an overflow of light. There is an

instinct for rhythmic relations which embraces wide areas of forms

(length, the need of a wide-embracing rhythm, is almost the measure of

the force of an inspiration, a sort of counterpart to its pressure and

tension). Everything happens quite involuntarily, as if in a tempestuous

outburst of freedom, of absoluteness, of power and divinity. The

involuntariness of the figures and similes is the most remarkable

thing; one loses all perception of what constitutes the figure and

what constitutes the simile; everything seems to present itself as

the readiest, the correctest and the simplest means of expression.

It actually seems, to use one of Zarathustra’s own phrases, as if all

things came unto one, and would fain be similes: ‘Here do all things

come caressingly to thy talk and flatter thee, for they want to ride

upon thy back. On every simile dost thou here ride to every truth. Here

fly open unto thee all being’s words and word-cabinets; here all being

wanteth to become words, here all becoming wanteth to learn of thee how

to talk.’ This is MY experience of inspiration. I do not doubt but that

one would have to go back thousands of years in order to find some one

who could say to me: It is mine also!—”



In the autumn of 1883 my brother left the Engadine for Germany and

stayed there a few weeks. In the following winter, after wandering

somewhat erratically through Stresa, Genoa, and Spezia, he landed in

Nice, where the climate so happily promoted his creative powers that

he wrote the third part of “Zarathustra”. “In the winter, beneath the

halcyon sky of Nice, which then looked down upon me for the first time

in my life, I found the third ‘Zarathustra’—and came to the end of my

task; the whole having occupied me scarcely a year. Many hidden corners

and heights in the landscapes round about Nice are hallowed to me by

unforgettable moments. That decisive chapter entitled ‘Old and New

Tables’ was composed in the very difficult ascent from the station

to Eza—that wonderful Moorish village in the rocks. My most creative

moments were always accompanied by unusual muscular activity. The body

is inspired: let us waive the question of the ‘soul.’ I might often have

been seen dancing in those days. Without a suggestion of fatigue I could

then walk for seven or eight hours on end among the hills. I slept well

and laughed well—I was perfectly robust and patient.”


