As we have seen, each of the three parts of “Zarathustra” was written,

after a more or less short period of preparation, in about ten days.

The composition of the fourth part alone was broken by occasional

interruptions. The first notes relating to this part were written while

he and I were staying together in Zurich in September 1884. In the

following November, while staying at Mentone, he began to elaborate

these notes, and after a long pause, finished the manuscript at Nice

between the end of January and the middle of February 1885. My brother

then called this part the fourth and last; but even before, and shortly

after it had been privately printed, he wrote to me saying that he still

intended writing a fifth and sixth part, and notes relating to these

parts are now in my possession. This fourth part (the original MS. of

which contains this note: “Only for my friends, not for the public”)

is written in a particularly personal spirit, and those few to whom he

presented a copy of it, he pledged to the strictest secrecy concerning

its contents. He often thought of making this fourth part public also,

but doubted whether he would ever be able to do so without considerably

altering certain portions of it. At all events he resolved to distribute

this manuscript production, of which only forty copies were printed,

only among those who had proved themselves worthy of it, and it speaks

eloquently of his utter loneliness and need of sympathy in those days,

that he had occasion to present only seven copies of his book according

to this resolution.



Already at the beginning of this history I hinted at the reasons which

led my brother to select a Persian as the incarnation of his ideal of

the majestic philosopher. His reasons, however, for choosing Zarathustra

of all others to be his mouthpiece, he gives us in the following

words:—“People have never asked me, as they should have done, what the

name Zarathustra precisely means in my mouth, in the mouth of the first

Immoralist; for what distinguishes that philosopher from all others

in the past is the very fact that he was exactly the reverse of an

immoralist. Zarathustra was the first to see in the struggle between

good and evil the essential wheel in the working of things. The

translation of morality into the metaphysical, as force, cause, end in

itself, was HIS work. But the very question suggests its own answer.

Zarathustra CREATED the most portentous error, MORALITY, consequently he

should also be the first to PERCEIVE that error, not only because he

has had longer and greater experience of the subject than any other

thinker—all history is the experimental refutation of the theory of
