man hath God died.”—ZARATHUSTRA, II., “The Pitiful.”









LXI. THE HONEY SACRIFICE.





—And again passed moons and years over Zarathustra’s soul, and he

heeded it not; his hair, however, became white. One day when he sat on

a stone in front of his cave, and gazed calmly into the distance—one

there gazeth out on the sea, and away beyond sinuous abysses,—then went

his animals thoughtfully round about him, and at last set themselves in

front of him.



“O Zarathustra,” said they, “gazest thou out perhaps for thy

happiness?”—“Of what account is my happiness!” answered he, “I have

long ceased to strive any more for happiness, I strive for my work.”—“O

Zarathustra,” said the animals once more, “that sayest thou as one

who hath overmuch of good things. Liest thou not in a sky-blue lake of

happiness?”—“Ye wags,” answered Zarathustra, and smiled, “how well did

ye choose the simile! But ye know also that my happiness is heavy, and

not like a fluid wave of water: it presseth me and will not leave me,

and is like molten pitch.”—



Then went his animals again thoughtfully around him, and placed

themselves once more in front of him. “O Zarathustra,” said they, “it is

consequently FOR THAT REASON that thou thyself always becometh yellower

and darker, although thy hair looketh white and flaxen? Lo, thou sittest

in thy pitch!”—“What do ye say, mine animals?” said Zarathustra,

laughing; “verily I reviled when I spake of pitch. As it happeneth with

me, so is it with all fruits that turn ripe. It is the HONEY in my veins

that maketh my blood thicker, and also my soul stiller.”—“So will it

be, O Zarathustra,” answered his animals, and pressed up to him; “but

wilt thou not to-day ascend a high mountain? The air is pure, and to-day

one seeth more of the world than ever.”—“Yea, mine animals,” answered

he, “ye counsel admirably and according to my heart: I will to-day

ascend a high mountain! But see that honey is there ready to hand,

yellow, white, good, ice-cool, golden-comb-honey. For know that when

aloft I will make the honey sacrifice.”—
