strangleth.” But his face had changed since then; and when Zarathustra

looked into his eyes, his heart was startled once more: so much evil

announcement and ashy-grey lightnings passed over that countenance.



The soothsayer, who had perceived what went on in Zarathustra’s soul,

wiped his face with his hand, as if he would wipe out the impression;

the same did also Zarathustra. And when both of them had thus silently

composed and strengthened themselves, they gave each other the hand, as

a token that they wanted once more to recognise each other.



“Welcome hither,” said Zarathustra, “thou soothsayer of the great

weariness, not in vain shalt thou once have been my messmate and guest.

Eat and drink also with me to-day, and forgive it that a cheerful old

man sitteth with thee at table!”—“A cheerful old man?” answered the

soothsayer, shaking his head, “but whoever thou art, or wouldst be, O

Zarathustra, thou hast been here aloft the longest time,—in a little

while thy bark shall no longer rest on dry land!”—“Do I then rest

on dry land?”—asked Zarathustra, laughing.—“The waves around thy

mountain,” answered the soothsayer, “rise and rise, the waves of great

distress and affliction: they will soon raise thy bark also and carry

thee away.”—Thereupon was Zarathustra silent and wondered.—“Dost thou

still hear nothing?” continued the soothsayer: “doth it not rush and

roar out of the depth?”—Zarathustra was silent once more and listened:

then heard he a long, long cry, which the abysses threw to one another

and passed on; for none of them wished to retain it: so evil did it

sound.



“Thou ill announcer,” said Zarathustra at last, “that is a cry of

distress, and the cry of a man; it may come perhaps out of a black sea.

But what doth human distress matter to me! My last sin which hath been

reserved for me,—knowest thou what it is called?”



—“PITY!” answered the soothsayer from an overflowing heart, and raised

both his hands aloft—“O Zarathustra, I have come that I may seduce thee

to thy last sin!”—



And hardly had those words been uttered when there sounded the cry

once more, and longer and more alarming than before—also much nearer.

“Hearest thou? Hearest thou, O Zarathustra?” called out the soothsayer,

“the cry concerneth thee, it calleth thee: Come, come, come; it is time,
