“We have discovered happiness,”—say the last men, and blink thereby.—



And here ended the first discourse of Zarathustra, which is also

called “The Prologue”: for at this point the shouting and mirth of the

multitude interrupted him. “Give us this last man, O Zarathustra,”—they

called out—“make us into these last men! Then will we make thee a

present of the Superman!” And all the people exulted and smacked their

lips. Zarathustra, however, turned sad, and said to his heart:



“They understand me not: I am not the mouth for these ears.



Too long, perhaps, have I lived in the mountains; too much have I

hearkened unto the brooks and trees: now do I speak unto them as unto

the goatherds.



Calm is my soul, and clear, like the mountains in the morning. But they

think me cold, and a mocker with terrible jests.



And now do they look at me and laugh: and while they laugh they hate me

too. There is ice in their laughter.”



6.



Then, however, something happened which made every mouth mute and every

eye fixed. In the meantime, of course, the rope-dancer had commenced his

performance: he had come out at a little door, and was going along the

rope which was stretched between two towers, so that it hung above the

market-place and the people. When he was just midway across, the little

door opened once more, and a gaudily-dressed fellow like a buffoon

sprang out, and went rapidly after the first one. “Go on, halt-foot,”

 cried his frightful voice, “go on, lazy-bones, interloper,

sallow-face!—lest I tickle thee with my heel! What dost thou here

between the towers? In the tower is the place for thee, thou shouldst be

locked up; to one better than thyself thou blockest the way!”—And with

every word he came nearer and nearer the first one. When, however, he

was but a step behind, there happened the frightful thing which made

every mouth mute and every eye fixed—he uttered a yell like a devil,

and jumped over the other who was in his way. The latter, however, when

he thus saw his rival triumph, lost at the same time his head and his

footing on the rope; he threw his pole away, and shot downwards faster
