

At their words will I now chew a long while as at good corn; small

shall my teeth grind and crush them, until they flow like milk into my

soul!”—



When, however, the path again curved round a rock, all at once the

landscape changed, and Zarathustra entered into a realm of death. Here

bristled aloft black and red cliffs, without any grass, tree, or bird’s

voice. For it was a valley which all animals avoided, even the beasts of

prey, except that a species of ugly, thick, green serpent came here to

die when they became old. Therefore the shepherds called this valley:

“Serpent-death.”



Zarathustra, however, became absorbed in dark recollections, for it

seemed to him as if he had once before stood in this valley. And much

heaviness settled on his mind, so that he walked slowly and always more

slowly, and at last stood still. Then, however, when he opened his eyes,

he saw something sitting by the wayside shaped like a man, and hardly

like a man, something nondescript. And all at once there came over

Zarathustra a great shame, because he had gazed on such a thing.

Blushing up to the very roots of his white hair, he turned aside his

glance, and raised his foot that he might leave this ill-starred place.

Then, however, became the dead wilderness vocal: for from the ground a

noise welled up, gurgling and rattling, as water gurgleth and rattleth

at night through stopped-up water-pipes; and at last it turned into

human voice and human speech:—it sounded thus:



“Zarathustra! Zarathustra! Read my riddle! Say, say! WHAT IS THE REVENGE

ON THE WITNESS?



I entice thee back; here is smooth ice! See to it, see to it, that thy

pride doth not here break its legs!



Thou thinkest thyself wise, thou proud Zarathustra! Read then the

riddle, thou hard nut-cracker,—the riddle that I am! Say then: who am

_I_!”



—When however Zarathustra had heard these words,—what think ye then

took place in his soul? PITY OVERCAME HIM; and he sank down all at

once, like an oak that hath long withstood many tree-fellers,—heavily,
