—And Zarathustra ran and ran, but he found no one else, and was alone

and ever found himself again; he enjoyed and quaffed his solitude, and

thought of good things—for hours. About the hour of noontide, however,

when the sun stood exactly over Zarathustra’s head, he passed an old,

bent and gnarled tree, which was encircled round by the ardent love of

a vine, and hidden from itself; from this there hung yellow grapes in

abundance, confronting the wanderer. Then he felt inclined to quench a

little thirst, and to break off for himself a cluster of grapes. When,

however, he had already his arm outstretched for that purpose, he felt

still more inclined for something else—namely, to lie down beside the

tree at the hour of perfect noontide and sleep.



This Zarathustra did; and no sooner had he laid himself on the ground in

the stillness and secrecy of the variegated grass, than he had forgotten

his little thirst, and fell asleep. For as the proverb of Zarathustra

saith: “One thing is more necessary than the other.” Only that his eyes

remained open:—for they never grew weary of viewing and admiring the

tree and the love of the vine. In falling asleep, however, Zarathustra

spake thus to his heart:



“Hush! Hush! Hath not the world now become perfect? What hath happened

unto me?



As a delicate wind danceth invisibly upon parqueted seas, light,

feather-light, so—danceth sleep upon me.



No eye doth it close to me, it leaveth my soul awake. Light is it,

verily, feather-light.



It persuadeth me, I know not how, it toucheth me inwardly with a

caressing hand, it constraineth me. Yea, it constraineth me, so that my

soul stretcheth itself out:—



—How long and weary it becometh, my strange soul! Hath a seventh-day

evening come to it precisely at noontide? Hath it already wandered too

long, blissfully, among good and ripe things?



It stretcheth itself out, long—longer! it lieth still, my strange

soul. Too many good things hath it already tasted; this golden sadness

oppresseth it, it distorteth its mouth.
