fateful to it.



I want to teach men the sense of their existence, which is the Superman,

the lightning out of the dark cloud—man.



But still am I far from them, and my sense speaketh not unto their

sense. To men I am still something between a fool and a corpse.



Gloomy is the night, gloomy are the ways of Zarathustra. Come, thou cold

and stiff companion! I carry thee to the place where I shall bury thee

with mine own hands.



8.



When Zarathustra had said this to his heart, he put the corpse upon his

shoulders and set out on his way. Yet had he not gone a hundred steps,

when there stole a man up to him and whispered in his ear—and lo!

he that spake was the buffoon from the tower. “Leave this town, O

Zarathustra,” said he, “there are too many here who hate thee. The

good and just hate thee, and call thee their enemy and despiser; the

believers in the orthodox belief hate thee, and call thee a danger to

the multitude. It was thy good fortune to be laughed at: and verily thou

spakest like a buffoon. It was thy good fortune to associate with the

dead dog; by so humiliating thyself thou hast saved thy life to-day.

Depart, however, from this town,—or to-morrow I shall jump over thee,

a living man over a dead one.” And when he had said this, the buffoon

vanished; Zarathustra, however, went on through the dark streets.



At the gate of the town the grave-diggers met him: they shone their

torch on his face, and, recognising Zarathustra, they sorely derided

him. “Zarathustra is carrying away the dead dog: a fine thing that

Zarathustra hath turned a grave-digger! For our hands are too cleanly

for that roast. Will Zarathustra steal the bite from the devil? Well

then, good luck to the repast! If only the devil is not a better thief

than Zarathustra!—he will steal them both, he will eat them both!” And

they laughed among themselves, and put their heads together.



Zarathustra made no answer thereto, but went on his way. When he had

gone on for two hours, past forests and swamps, he had heard too much of

the hungry howling of the wolves, and he himself became a-hungry. So he
