halted at a lonely house in which a light was burning.



“Hunger attacketh me,” said Zarathustra, “like a robber. Among forests

and swamps my hunger attacketh me, and late in the night.



“Strange humours hath my hunger. Often it cometh to me only after a

repast, and all day it hath failed to come: where hath it been?”



And thereupon Zarathustra knocked at the door of the house. An old man

appeared, who carried a light, and asked: “Who cometh unto me and my bad

sleep?”



“A living man and a dead one,” said Zarathustra. “Give me something to

eat and drink, I forgot it during the day. He that feedeth the hungry

refresheth his own soul, saith wisdom.”



The old man withdrew, but came back immediately and offered Zarathustra

bread and wine. “A bad country for the hungry,” said he; “that is why

I live here. Animal and man come unto me, the anchorite. But bid thy

companion eat and drink also, he is wearier than thou.” Zarathustra

answered: “My companion is dead; I shall hardly be able to persuade him

to eat.” “That doth not concern me,” said the old man sullenly; “he

that knocketh at my door must take what I offer him. Eat, and fare ye

well!”—



Thereafter Zarathustra again went on for two hours, trusting to the path

and the light of the stars: for he was an experienced night-walker, and

liked to look into the face of all that slept. When the morning dawned,

however, Zarathustra found himself in a thick forest, and no path was

any longer visible. He then put the dead man in a hollow tree at his

head—for he wanted to protect him from the wolves—and laid himself

down on the ground and moss. And immediately he fell asleep, tired in

body, but with a tranquil soul.



9.



Long slept Zarathustra; and not only the rosy dawn passed over his head,

but also the morning. At last, however, his eyes opened, and amazedly he

gazed into the forest and the stillness, amazedly he gazed into himself.

Then he arose quickly, like a seafarer who all at once seeth the land;
