the dancing of an ass would have been. In short, as the proverb of

Zarathustra saith: “What doth it matter!”



2.



When, however, this took place with the ugliest man, Zarathustra stood

there like one drunken: his glance dulled, his tongue faltered and his

feet staggered. And who could divine what thoughts then passed through

Zarathustra’s soul? Apparently, however, his spirit retreated and fled

in advance and was in remote distances, and as it were “wandering on

high mountain-ridges,” as it standeth written, “‘twixt two seas,



—Wandering ‘twixt the past and the future as a heavy cloud.” Gradually,

however, while the higher men held him in their arms, he came back to

himself a little, and resisted with his hands the crowd of the honouring

and caring ones; but he did not speak. All at once, however, he turned

his head quickly, for he seemed to hear something: then laid he his

finger on his mouth and said: “COME!”



And immediately it became still and mysterious round about; from

the depth however there came up slowly the sound of a clock-bell.

Zarathustra listened thereto, like the higher men; then, however, laid

he his finger on his mouth the second time, and said again: “COME! COME!

IT IS GETTING ON TO MIDNIGHT!”—and his voice had changed. But still

he had not moved from the spot. Then it became yet stiller and more

mysterious, and everything hearkened, even the ass, and Zarathustra’s

noble animals, the eagle and the serpent,—likewise the cave of

Zarathustra and the big cool moon, and the night itself. Zarathustra,

however, laid his hand upon his mouth for the third time, and said:



COME! COME! COME! LET US NOW WANDER! IT IS THE HOUR: LET US WANDER INTO

THE NIGHT!



3.



Ye higher men, it is getting on to midnight: then will I say something

into your ears, as that old clock-bell saith it into mine ear,—



—As mysteriously, as frightfully, and as cordially as that midnight

clock-bell speaketh it to me, which hath experienced more than one man:
