And if they remained in their chambers whilst thou art already awake,

and comest and bestowest and distributest, how would thy proud modesty

upbraid for it!



Well! they still sleep, these higher men, whilst _I_ am awake: THEY are

not my proper companions! Not for them do I wait here in my mountains.



At my work I want to be, at my day: but they understand not what are the

signs of my morning, my step—is not for them the awakening-call.



They still sleep in my cave; their dream still drinketh at my drunken

songs. The audient ear for ME—the OBEDIENT ear, is yet lacking in their

limbs.”



—This had Zarathustra spoken to his heart when the sun arose: then

looked he inquiringly aloft, for he heard above him the sharp call of

his eagle. “Well!” called he upwards, “thus is it pleasing and proper to

me. Mine animals are awake, for I am awake.



Mine eagle is awake, and like me honoureth the sun. With eagle-talons

doth it grasp at the new light. Ye are my proper animals; I love you.



But still do I lack my proper men!”—



Thus spake Zarathustra; then, however, it happened that all on a sudden

he became aware that he was flocked around and fluttered around, as if

by innumerable birds,—the whizzing of so many wings, however, and the

crowding around his head was so great that he shut his eyes. And verily,

there came down upon him as it were a cloud, like a cloud of arrows

which poureth upon a new enemy. But behold, here it was a cloud of love,

and showered upon a new friend.



“What happeneth unto me?” thought Zarathustra in his astonished heart,

and slowly seated himself on the big stone which lay close to the exit

from his cave. But while he grasped about with his hands, around him,

above him and below him, and repelled the tender birds, behold, there

then happened to him something still stranger: for he grasped thereby

unawares into a mass of thick, warm, shaggy hair; at the same time,

however, there sounded before him a roar,—a long, soft lion-roar.


