“THE SIGN COMETH,” said Zarathustra, and a change came over his heart.

And in truth, when it turned clear before him, there lay a yellow,

powerful animal at his feet, resting its head on his knee,—unwilling to

leave him out of love, and doing like a dog which again findeth its old

master. The doves, however, were no less eager with their love than the

lion; and whenever a dove whisked over its nose, the lion shook its head

and wondered and laughed.



When all this went on Zarathustra spake only a word: “MY CHILDREN ARE

NIGH, MY CHILDREN”—, then he became quite mute. His heart, however,

was loosed, and from his eyes there dropped down tears and fell upon

his hands. And he took no further notice of anything, but sat there

motionless, without repelling the animals further. Then flew the doves

to and fro, and perched on his shoulder, and caressed his white hair,

and did not tire of their tenderness and joyousness. The strong lion,

however, licked always the tears that fell on Zarathustra’s hands, and

roared and growled shyly. Thus did these animals do.—



All this went on for a long time, or a short time: for properly

speaking, there is NO time on earth for such things—. Meanwhile,

however, the higher men had awakened in Zarathustra’s cave, and

marshalled themselves for a procession to go to meet Zarathustra, and

give him their morning greeting: for they had found when they awakened

that he no longer tarried with them. When, however, they reached the

door of the cave and the noise of their steps had preceded them, the

lion started violently; it turned away all at once from Zarathustra, and

roaring wildly, sprang towards the cave. The higher men, however, when

they heard the lion roaring, cried all aloud as with one voice, fled

back and vanished in an instant.



Zarathustra himself, however, stunned and strange, rose from his seat,

looked around him, stood there astonished, inquired of his heart,

bethought himself, and remained alone. “What did I hear?” said he at

last, slowly, “what happened unto me just now?”



But soon there came to him his recollection, and he took in at a glance

all that had taken place between yesterday and to-day. “Here is indeed

the stone,” said he, and stroked his beard, “on IT sat I yester-morn;

and here came the soothsayer unto me, and here heard I first the cry

which I heard just now, the great cry of distress.
