interpretation of the more abstruse passages in this work.



In offering this little commentary to the Nietzsche student, I should

like it to be understood that I make no claim as to its infallibility or

indispensability. It represents but an attempt on my part—a very feeble

one perhaps—to give the reader what little help I can in surmounting

difficulties which a long study of Nietzsche’s life and works has

enabled me, partially I hope, to overcome.



 ...



Perhaps it would be as well to start out with a broad and rapid sketch

of Nietzsche as a writer on Morals, Evolution, and Sociology, so that

the reader may be prepared to pick out for himself, so to speak, all

passages in this work bearing in any way upon Nietzsche’s views in those

three important branches of knowledge.



(A.) Nietzsche and Morality.



In morality, Nietzsche starts out by adopting the position of the

relativist. He says there are no absolute values “good” and “evil”;

these are mere means adopted by all in order to acquire power to

maintain their place in the world, or to become supreme. It is the

lion’s good to devour an antelope. It is the dead-leaf butterfly’s

good to tell a foe a falsehood. For when the dead-leaf butterfly is in

danger, it clings to the side of a twig, and what it says to its foe is

practically this: “I am not a butterfly, I am a dead leaf, and can be

of no use to thee.” This is a lie which is good to the butterfly, for

it preserves it. In nature every species of organic being instinctively

adopts and practises those acts which most conduce to the prevalence

or supremacy of its kind. Once the most favourable order of conduct is

found, proved efficient and established, it becomes the ruling morality

of the species that adopts it and bears them along to victory. All

species must not and cannot value alike, for what is the lion’s good is

the antelope’s evil and vice versa.



Concepts of good and evil are therefore, in their origin, merely a means

to an end, they are expedients for acquiring power.



Applying this principle to mankind, Nietzsche attacked Christian
