moral values. He declared them to be, like all other morals, merely

an expedient for protecting a certain type of man. In the case of

Christianity this type was, according to Nietzsche, a low one.



Conflicting moral codes have been no more than the conflicting weapons

of different classes of men; for in mankind there is a continual war

between the powerful, the noble, the strong, and the well-constituted

on the one side, and the impotent, the mean, the weak, and the

ill-constituted on the other. The war is a war of moral principles.

The morality of the powerful class, Nietzsche calls NOBLE- or

MASTER-MORALITY; that of the weak and subordinate class he calls

SLAVE-MORALITY. In the first morality it is the eagle which, looking

down upon a browsing lamb, contends that “eating lamb is good.” In the

second, the slave-morality, it is the lamb which, looking up from the

sward, bleats dissentingly: “Eating lamb is evil.”



(B.) The Master- and Slave-Morality Compared.



The first morality is active, creative, Dionysian. The second is

passive, defensive,—to it belongs the “struggle for existence.”



Where attempts have not been made to reconcile the two moralities, they

may be described as follows:—All is GOOD in the noble morality which

proceeds from strength, power, health, well-constitutedness, happiness,

and awfulness; for, the motive force behind the people practising it is

“the struggle for power.” The antithesis “good and bad” to this

first class means the same as “noble” and “despicable.” “Bad” in the

master-morality must be applied to the coward, to all acts that spring

from weakness, to the man with “an eye to the main chance,” who would

forsake everything in order to live.



With the second, the slave-morality, the case is different. There,

inasmuch as the community is an oppressed, suffering, unemancipated, and

weary one, all THAT will be held to be good which alleviates the

state of suffering. Pity, the obliging hand, the warm heart, patience,

industry, and humility—these are unquestionably the qualities we shall

here find flooded with the light of approval and admiration; because

they are the most USEFUL qualities—; they make life endurable, they are

of assistance in the “struggle for existence” which is the motive force

behind the people practising this morality. To this class, all that is
