AWFUL is bad, in fact it is THE evil par excellence. Strength, health,

superabundance of animal spirits and power, are regarded with hate,

suspicion, and fear by the subordinate class.



Now Nietzsche believed that the first or the noble-morality conduced to

an ascent in the line of life; because it was creative and active. On

the other hand, he believed that the second or slave-morality, where

it became paramount, led to degeneration, because it was passive and

defensive, wanting merely to keep those who practised it alive. Hence

his earnest advocacy of noble-morality.



(C.) Nietzsche and Evolution.



Nietzsche as an evolutionist I shall have occasion to define and discuss

in the course of these notes (see Notes on Chapter LVI., par. 10, and on

Chapter LVII.). For the present let it suffice for us to know that he

accepted the “Development Hypothesis” as an explanation of the origin of

species: but he did not halt where most naturalists have halted. He

by no means regarded man as the highest possible being which evolution

could arrive at; for though his physical development may have reached

its limit, this is not the case with his mental or spiritual attributes.

If the process be a fact; if things have BECOME what they are, then, he

contends, we may describe no limit to man’s aspirations. If he struggled

up from barbarism, and still more remotely from the lower Primates,

his ideal should be to surpass man himself and reach Superman (see

especially the Prologue).



(D.) Nietzsche and Sociology.



Nietzsche as a sociologist aims at an aristocratic arrangement of

society. He would have us rear an ideal race. Honest and truthful in

intellectual matters, he could not even think that men are equal. “With

these preachers of equality will I not be mixed up and confounded. For

thus speaketh justice unto ME: ‘Men are not equal.’” He sees precisely

in this inequality a purpose to be served, a condition to be exploited.

“Every elevation of the type ‘man,’” he writes in “Beyond Good and

Evil”, “has hitherto been the work of an aristocratic society—and so

will it always be—a society believing in a long scale of gradations of

rank and differences of worth among human beings.”


