to power. Needless to say that verses 9, 10, 11, and 12 refer to the

Greeks, the Persians, the Jews, and the Germans respectively. In the

penultimate verse he makes known his discovery concerning the root of

modern Nihilism and indifference,—i.e., that modern man has no goal, no

aim, no ideals (see Note A).



Chapter XVIII. Old and Young Women.



Nietzsche’s views on women have either to be loved at first sight

or they become perhaps the greatest obstacle in the way of those who

otherwise would be inclined to accept his philosophy. Women especially,

of course, have been taught to dislike them, because it has been

rumoured that his views are unfriendly to themselves. Now, to my mind,

all this is pure misunderstanding and error.



German philosophers, thanks to Schopenhauer, have earned rather a bad

name for their views on women. It is almost impossible for one of them

to write a line on the subject, however kindly he may do so, without

being suspected of wishing to open a crusade against the fair sex.

Despite the fact, therefore, that all Nietzsche’s views in this respect

were dictated to him by the profoundest love; despite Zarathustra’s

reservation in this discourse, that “with women nothing (that can be

said) is impossible,” and in the face of other overwhelming evidence

to the contrary, Nietzsche is universally reported to have mis son

pied dans le plat, where the female sex is concerned. And what is the

fundamental doctrine which has given rise to so much bitterness and

aversion?—Merely this: that the sexes are at bottom ANTAGONISTIC—that

is to say, as different as blue is from yellow, and that the best

possible means of rearing anything approaching a desirable race is to

preserve and to foster this profound hostility. What Nietzsche strives

to combat and to overthrow is the modern democratic tendency which is

slowly labouring to level all things—even the sexes. His quarrel is not

with women—what indeed could be more undignified?—it is with those who

would destroy the natural relationship between the sexes, by modifying

either the one or the other with a view to making them more alike. The

human world is just as dependent upon women’s powers as upon men’s. It

is women’s strongest and most valuable instincts which help to determine

who are to be the fathers of the next generation. By destroying these

particular instincts, that is to say by attempting to masculinise woman,

and to feminise men, we jeopardise the future of our people. The general
