democratic movement of modern times, in its frantic struggle to mitigate

all differences, is now invading even the world of sex. It is against

this movement that Nietzsche raises his voice; he would have woman

become ever more woman and man become ever more man. Only thus, and

he is undoubtedly right, can their combined instincts lead to the

excellence of humanity. Regarded in this light, all his views on woman

appear not only necessary but just (see Note on Chapter LVI., par. 21.)



It is interesting to observe that the last line of the discourse, which

has so frequently been used by women as a weapon against Nietzsche’s

views concerning them, was suggested to Nietzsche by a woman (see “Das

Leben F. Nietzsche’s”).



Chapter XXI. Voluntary Death.



In regard to this discourse, I should only like to point out that

Nietzsche had a particular aversion to the word “suicide”—self-murder.

He disliked the evil it suggested, and in rechristening the act

Voluntary Death, i.e., the death that comes from no other hand than

one’s own, he was desirous of elevating it to the position it held in

classical antiquity (see Aphorism 36 in “The Twilight of the Idols”).



Chapter XXII. The Bestowing Virtue.



An important aspect of Nietzsche’s philosophy is brought to light in

this discourse. His teaching, as is well known, places the Aristotelian

man of spirit, above all others in the natural divisions of man. The

man with overflowing strength, both of mind and body, who must discharge

this strength or perish, is the Nietzschean ideal. To such a man, giving

from his overflow becomes a necessity; bestowing develops into a means

of existence, and this is the only giving, the only charity, that

Nietzsche recognises. In paragraph 3 of the discourse, we read

Zarathustra’s healthy exhortation to his disciples to become independent

thinkers and to find themselves before they learn any more from him (see

Notes on Chapters LVI., par. 5, and LXXIII., pars. 10, 11).



 ...



PART II.


