Chapter XXIII. The Child with the Mirror.



Nietzsche tells us here, in a poetical form, how deeply grieved he was

by the manifold misinterpretations and misunderstandings which were

becoming rife concerning his publications. He does not recognise

himself in the mirror of public opinion, and recoils terrified from the

distorted reflection of his features. In verse 20 he gives us a

hint which it were well not to pass over too lightly; for, in the

introduction to “The Genealogy of Morals” (written in 1887) he finds it

necessary to refer to the matter again and with greater precision. The

point is this, that a creator of new values meets with his surest and

strongest obstacles in the very spirit of the language which is at his

disposal. Words, like all other manifestations of an evolving race, are

stamped with the values that have long been paramount in that race.

Now, the original thinker who finds himself compelled to use the current

speech of his country in order to impart new and hitherto untried views

to his fellows, imposes a task upon the natural means of communication

which it is totally unfitted to perform,—hence the obscurities and

prolixities which are so frequently met with in the writings of original

thinkers. In the “Dawn of Day”, Nietzsche actually cautions young

writers against THE DANGER OF ALLOWING THEIR THOUGHTS TO BE MOULDED BY

THE WORDS AT THEIR DISPOSAL.



Chapter XXIV. In the Happy Isles.



While writing this, Nietzsche is supposed to have been thinking of the

island of Ischia which was ultimately destroyed by an earthquake. His

teaching here is quite clear. He was among the first thinkers of Europe

to overcome the pessimism which godlessness generally brings in its

wake. He points to creating as the surest salvation from the suffering

which is a concomitant of all higher life. “What would there be to

create,” he asks, “if there were—Gods?” His ideal, the Superman, lends

him the cheerfulness necessary to the overcoming of that despair usually

attendant upon godlessness and upon the apparent aimlessness of a world

without a god.



Chapter XXIX. The Tarantulas.



The tarantulas are the Socialists and Democrats. This discourse offers

us an analysis of their mental attitude. Nietzsche refuses to be
