camel-stage mentioned in the first discourse, and that is obdurately

sublime and earnest. To be able to smile while speaking of lofty things

and NOT TO BE OPPRESSED by them, is the secret of real greatness. He

whose hand trembles when it lays hold of a beautiful thing, has the

quality of reverence, without the artist’s unembarrassed friendship

with the beautiful. Hence the mistakes which have arisen in regard to

confounding Nietzsche with his extreme opposites the anarchists and

agitators. For what they dare to touch and break with the impudence

and irreverence of the unappreciative, he seems likewise to touch and

break,—but with other fingers—with the fingers of the loving and

unembarrassed artist who is on good terms with the beautiful and who

feels able to create it and to enhance it with his touch. The question

of taste plays an important part in Nietzsche’s philosophy, and verses

9, 10 of this discourse exactly state Nietzsche’s ultimate views on the

subject. In the “Spirit of Gravity”, he actually cries:—“Neither a good

nor a bad taste, but MY taste, of which I have no longer either shame or

secrecy.”



Chapter XXXVI. The Land of Culture.



This is a poetical epitome of some of the scathing criticism of

scholars which appears in the first of the “Thoughts out of Season”—the

polemical pamphlet (written in 1873) against David Strauss and his

school. He reproaches his former colleagues with being sterile and

shows them that their sterility is the result of their not believing

in anything. “He who had to create, had always his presaging dreams and

astral premonitions—and believed in believing!” (See Note on Chapter

LXXVII.) In the last two verses he reveals the nature of his altruism.

How far it differs from that of Christianity we have already read in the

discourse “Neighbour-Love”, but here he tells us definitely the nature

of his love to mankind; he explains why he was compelled to assail the

Christian values of pity and excessive love of the neighbour, not only

because they are slave-values and therefore tend to promote degeneration

(see Note B.), but because he could only love his children’s land, the

undiscovered land in a remote sea; because he would fain retrieve the

errors of his fathers in his children.



Chapter XXXVII. Immaculate Perception.



An important feature of Nietzsche’s interpretation of Life is disclosed
