in this discourse. As Buckle suggests in his “Influence of Women on the

Progress of Knowledge”, the scientific spirit of the investigator is

both helped and supplemented by the latter’s emotions and personality,

and the divorce of all emotionalism and individual temperament from

science is a fatal step towards sterility. Zarathustra abjures all those

who would fain turn an IMPERSONAL eye upon nature and contemplate her

phenomena with that pure objectivity to which the scientific idealists

of to-day would so much like to attain. He accuses such idealists of

hypocrisy and guile; he says they lack innocence in their desires and

therefore slander all desiring.



Chapter XXXVIII. Scholars.



This is a record of Nietzsche’s final breach with his former

colleagues—the scholars of Germany. Already after the publication of

the “Birth of Tragedy”, numbers of German philologists and professional

philosophers had denounced him as one who had strayed too far from

their flock, and his lectures at the University of Bale were deserted

in consequence; but it was not until 1879, when he finally severed all

connection with University work, that he may be said to have attained to

the freedom and independence which stamp this discourse.



Chapter XXXIX. Poets.



People have sometimes said that Nietzsche had no sense of humour. I

have no intention of defending him here against such foolish critics; I

should only like to point out to the reader that we have him here at

his best, poking fun at himself, and at his fellow-poets (see Note on

Chapter LXIII., pars. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20).



Chapter XL. Great Events.



Here we seem to have a puzzle. Zarathustra himself, while relating

his experience with the fire-dog to his disciples, fails to get them

interested in his narrative, and we also may be only too ready to turn

over these pages under the impression that they are little more than

a mere phantasy or poetical flight. Zarathustra’s interview with the

fire-dog is, however, of great importance. In it we find Nietzsche

face to face with the creature he most sincerely loathes—the spirit

of revolution, and we obtain fresh hints concerning his hatred of the
