anarchist and rebel. “‘Freedom’ ye all roar most eagerly,” he says to

the fire-dog, “but I have unlearned the belief in ‘Great Events’ when

there is much roaring and smoke about them. Not around the inventors

of new noise, but around the inventors of new values, doth the world

revolve; INAUDIBLY it revolveth.”



Chapter XLI. The Soothsayer.



This refers, of course, to Schopenhauer. Nietzsche, as is well known,

was at one time an ardent follower of Schopenhauer. He overcame

Pessimism by discovering an object in existence; he saw the possibility

of raising society to a higher level and preached the profoundest

Optimism in consequence.



Chapter XLII. Redemption.



Zarathustra here addresses cripples. He tells them of other

cripples—the GREAT MEN in this world who have one organ or faculty

inordinately developed at the cost of their other faculties. This is

doubtless a reference to a fact which is too often noticeable in the

case of so many of the world’s giants in art, science, or religion. In

verse 19 we are told what Nietzsche called Redemption—that is to say,

the ability to say of all that is past: “Thus would I have it.” The

in ability to say this, and the resentment which results therefrom,

he regards as the source of all our feelings of revenge, and all our

desires to punish—punishment meaning to him merely a euphemism for the

word revenge, invented in order to still our consciences. He who can be

proud of his enemies, who can be grateful to them for the obstacles they

have put in his way; he who can regard his worst calamity as but the

extra strain on the bow of his life, which is to send the arrow of

his longing even further than he could have hoped;—this man knows no

revenge, neither does he know despair, he truly has found redemption and

can turn on the worst in his life and even in himself, and call it his

best (see Notes on Chapter LVII.).



Chapter XLIII. Manly Prudence.



This discourse is very important. In “Beyond Good and Evil” we hear

often enough that the select and superior man must wear a mask, and

here we find this injunction explained. “And he who would not languish
