amongst men, must learn to drink out of all glasses: and he who would

keep clean amongst men, must know how to wash himself even with dirty

water.” This, I venture to suggest, requires some explanation. At a time

when individuality is supposed to be shown most tellingly by putting

boots on one’s hands and gloves on one’s feet, it is somewhat refreshing

to come across a true individualist who feels the chasm between himself

and others so deeply, that he must perforce adapt himself to them

outwardly, at least, in all respects, so that the inner difference

should be overlooked. Nietzsche practically tells us here that it is not

he who intentionally wears eccentric clothes or does eccentric things

who is truly the individualist. The profound man, who is by nature

differentiated from his fellows, feels this difference too keenly to

call attention to it by any outward show. He is shamefast and bashful

with those who surround him and wishes not to be discovered by them,

just as one instinctively avoids all lavish display of comfort or wealth

in the presence of a poor friend.



Chapter XLIV. The Stillest Hour.



This seems to me to give an account of the great struggle which must

have taken place in Nietzsche’s soul before he finally resolved to make

known the more esoteric portions of his teaching. Our deepest feelings

crave silence. There is a certain self-respect in the serious man which

makes him hold his profoundest feelings sacred. Before they are uttered

they are full of the modesty of a virgin, and often the oldest sage will

blush like a girl when this virginity is violated by an indiscretion

which forces him to reveal his deepest thoughts.



 ...



PART III.



This is perhaps the most important of all the four parts. If it

contained only “The Vision and the Enigma” and “The Old and New Tables”

 I should still be of this opinion; for in the former of these discourses

we meet with what Nietzsche regarded as the crowning doctrine of his

philosophy and in “The Old and New Tables” we have a valuable epitome of

practically all his leading principles.



Chapter XLVI. The Vision and the Enigma.
