earth laughed a man as he laughed!”



In this parable the young shepherd is obviously the man of to-day; the

snake that chokes him represents the stultifying and paralysing social

values that threaten to shatter humanity, and the advice “Bite! Bite!”

 is but Nietzsche’s exasperated cry to mankind to alter their values

before it is too late.



Chapter XLVII. Involuntary Bliss.



This, like “The Wanderer”, is one of the many introspective passages

in the work, and is full of innuendos and hints as to the Nietzschean

outlook on life.



Chapter XLVIII. Before Sunrise.



Here we have a record of Zarathustra’s avowal of optimism, as also the

important statement concerning “Chance” or “Accident” (verse 27). Those

who are familiar with Nietzsche’s philosophy will not require to be told

what an important role his doctrine of chance plays in his teaching.

The Giant Chance has hitherto played with the puppet “man,”—this is

the fact he cannot contemplate with equanimity. Man shall now exploit

chance, he says again and again, and make it fall on its knees before

him! (See verse 33 in “On the Olive-Mount”, and verses 9–10 in “The

Bedwarfing Virtue”).



Chapter XLIX. The Bedwarfing Virtue.



This requires scarcely any comment. It is a satire on modern man and

his belittling virtues. In verses 23 and 24 of the second part of the

discourse we are reminded of Nietzsche’s powerful indictment of the

great of to-day, in the Antichrist (Aphorism 43):—“At present

nobody has any longer the courage for separate rights, for rights of

domination, for a feeling of reverence for himself and his equals,—FOR

PATHOS OF DISTANCE.... Our politics are MORBID from this want of

courage!—The aristocracy of character has been undermined most craftily

by the lie of the equality of souls; and if the belief in the ‘privilege

of the many,’ makes revolutions and WILL CONTINUE TO MAKE them, it is

Christianity, let us not doubt it, it is CHRISTIAN valuations, which

translate every revolution merely into blood and crime!” (see also
