“Beyond Good and Evil”, pages 120, 121). Nietzsche thought it was a

bad sign of the times that even rulers have lost the courage of

their positions, and that a man of Frederick the Great’s power and

distinguished gifts should have been able to say: “Ich bin der erste

Diener des Staates” (I am the first servant of the State.) To this

utterance of the great sovereign, verse 24 undoubtedly refers.

“Cowardice” and “Mediocrity,” are the names with which he labels modern

notions of virtue and moderation.



In Part III., we get the sentiments of the discourse “In the Happy

Isles”, but perhaps in stronger terms. Once again we find Nietzsche

thoroughly at ease, if not cheerful, as an atheist, and speaking with

vertiginous daring of making chance go on its knees to him. In verse

20, Zarathustra makes yet another attempt at defining his entirely

anti-anarchical attitude, and unless such passages have been completely

overlooked or deliberately ignored hitherto by those who will persist in

laying anarchy at his door, it is impossible to understand how he ever

became associated with that foul political party.



The last verse introduces the expression, “THE GREAT NOONTIDE!” In the

poem to be found at the end of “Beyond Good and Evil”, we meet with

the expression again, and we shall find it occurring time and again in

Nietzsche’s works. It will be found fully elucidated in the fifth part

of “The Twilight of the Idols”; but for those who cannot refer to

this book, it were well to point out that Nietzsche called the present

period—our period—the noon of man’s history. Dawn is behind us. The

childhood of mankind is over. Now we KNOW; there is now no longer any

excuse for mistakes which will tend to botch and disfigure the type man.

“With respect to what is past,” he says, “I have, like all discerning

ones, great toleration, that is to say, GENEROUS self-control.... But my

feeling changes suddenly, and breaks out as soon as I enter the modern

period, OUR period. Our age KNOWS...” (See Note on Chapter LXX.).



Chapter LI. On Passing-by.



Here we find Nietzsche confronted with his extreme opposite, with

him therefore for whom he is most frequently mistaken by the unwary.

“Zarathustra’s ape” he is called in the discourse. He is one of those

at whose hands Nietzsche had to suffer most during his life-time, and

at whose hands his philosophy has suffered most since his death. In this
