respect it may seem a little trivial to speak of extremes meeting; but

it is wonderfully apt. Many have adopted Nietzsche’s mannerisms and

word-coinages, who had nothing in common with him beyond the ideas and

“business” they plagiarised; but the superficial observer and a large

portion of the public, not knowing of these things,—not knowing perhaps

that there are iconoclasts who destroy out of love and are therefore

creators, and that there are others who destroy out of resentment and

revengefulness and who are therefore revolutionists and anarchists,—are

prone to confound the two, to the detriment of the nobler type.



If we now read what the fool says to Zarathustra, and note the tricks of

speech he has borrowed from him: if we carefully follow the attitude

he assumes, we shall understand why Zarathustra finally interrupts him.

“Stop this at once,” Zarathustra cries, “long have thy speech and

thy species disgusted me.... Out of love alone shall my contempt and my

warning bird take wing; BUT NOT OUT OF THE SWAMP!” It were well if

this discourse were taken to heart by all those who are too ready to

associate Nietzsche with lesser and noiser men,—with mountebanks and

mummers.



Chapter LII. The Apostates.



It is clear that this applies to all those breathless and hasty “tasters

of everything,” who plunge too rashly into the sea of independent

thought and “heresy,” and who, having miscalculated their strength, find

it impossible to keep their head above water. “A little older, a little

colder,” says Nietzsche. They soon clamber back to the conventions of

the age they intended reforming. The French then say “le diable se fait

hermite,” but these men, as a rule, have never been devils, neither

do they become angels; for, in order to be really good or evil, some

strength and deep breathing is required. Those who are more interested

in supporting orthodoxy than in being over nice concerning the kind of

support they give it, often refer to these people as evidence in favour

of the true faith.



Chapter LIII. The Return Home.



This is an example of a class of writing which may be passed over too

lightly by those whom poetasters have made distrustful of poetry. From

first to last it is extremely valuable as an autobiographical note. The
