inevitable superficiality of the rabble is contrasted with the peaceful

and profound depths of the anchorite. Here we first get a direct hint

concerning Nietzsche’s fundamental passion—the main force behind all

his new values and scathing criticism of existing values. In verse 30

we are told that pity was his greatest danger. The broad altruism of the

law-giver, thinking over vast eras of time, was continually being pitted

by Nietzsche, in himself, against that transient and meaner sympathy for

the neighbour which he more perhaps than any of his contemporaries had

suffered from, but which he was certain involved enormous dangers not

only for himself but also to the next and subsequent generations (see

Note B., where “pity” is mentioned among the degenerate virtues). Later

in the book we shall see how his profound compassion leads him into

temptation, and how frantically he struggles against it. In verses 31

and 32, he tells us to what extent he had to modify himself in order

to be endured by his fellows whom he loved (see also verse 12 in “Manly

Prudence”). Nietzsche’s great love for his fellows, which he confesses

in the Prologue, and which is at the root of all his teaching, seems

rather to elude the discerning powers of the average philanthropist and

modern man. He cannot see the wood for the trees. A philanthropy that

sacrifices the minority of the present-day for the majority constituting

posterity, completely evades his mental grasp, and Nietzsche’s

philosophy, because it declares Christian values to be a danger to the

future of our kind, is therefore shelved as brutal, cold, and hard (see

Note on Chapter XXXVI.). Nietzsche tried to be all things to all men;

he was sufficiently fond of his fellows for that: in the Return Home he

describes how he ultimately returns to loneliness in order to recover

from the effects of his experiment.



Chapter LIV. The Three Evil Things.



Nietzsche is here completely in his element. Three things hitherto

best cursed and most calumniated on earth, are brought forward to be

weighed. Voluptuousness, thirst of power, and selfishness,—the three

forces in humanity which Christianity has done most to garble and

besmirch,—Nietzsche endeavours to reinstate in their former places of

honour. Voluptuousness, or sensual pleasure, is a dangerous thing to

discuss nowadays. If we mention it with favour we may be regarded,

however unjustly, as the advocate of savages, satyrs, and pure

sensuality. If we condemn it, we either go over to the Puritans or we

join those who are wont to come to table with no edge to their appetites
