been cut out of the original context, are repeated far and wide as

internal evidence proving the general unsoundness of Nietzsche’s

philosophy. Already in the last of the “Thoughts out of Season”

 Nietzsche speaks as follows about modern men: “...these modern creatures

wish rather to be hunted down, wounded and torn to shreds, than to

live alone with themselves in solitary calm. Alone with oneself!—this

thought terrifies the modern soul; it is his one anxiety, his one

ghastly fear” (English Edition, page 141). In his feverish scurry to

find entertainment and diversion, whether in a novel, a newspaper, or a

play, the modern man condemns his own age utterly; for he shows that in

his heart of hearts he despises himself. One cannot change a condition

of this sort in a day; to become endurable to oneself an inner

transformation is necessary. Too long have we lost ourselves in our

friends and entertainments to be able to find ourselves so soon at

another’s bidding. “And verily, it is no commandment for to-day and

to-morrow to LEARN to love oneself. Rather is it of all arts the finest,

subtlest, last, and patientest.”



In the last verse Nietzsche challenges us to show that our way is

the right way. In his teaching he does not coerce us, nor does he

overpersuade; he simply says: “I am a law only for mine own, I am not a

law for all. This—is now MY way,—where is yours?”



Chapter LVI. Old and New Tables. Par. 2.



Nietzsche himself declares this to be the most decisive portion of

the whole of “Thus Spake Zarathustra”. It is a sort of epitome of his

leading doctrines. In verse 12 of the second paragraph, we learn how he

himself would fain have abandoned the poetical method of expression had

he not known only too well that the only chance a new doctrine has of

surviving, nowadays, depends upon its being given to the world in some

kind of art-form. Just as prophets, centuries ago, often had to have

recourse to the mask of madness in order to mitigate the hatred of those

who did not and could not see as they did; so, to-day, the struggle for

existence among opinions and values is so great, that an art-form

is practically the only garb in which a new philosophy can dare to

introduce itself to us.



Pars. 3 and 4.


