Many of the paragraphs will be found to be merely reminiscent of former

discourses. For instance, par. 3 recalls “Redemption”. The last verse

of par. 4 is important. Freedom which, as I have pointed out before,

Nietzsche considered a dangerous acquisition in inexperienced or

unworthy hands, here receives its death-blow as a general desideratum.

In the first Part we read under “The Way of the Creating One”, that

freedom as an end in itself does not concern Zarathustra at all. He says

there: “Free from what? What doth that matter to Zarathustra? Clearly,

however, shall thine eye answer me: free FOR WHAT?” And in “The

Bedwarfing Virtue”: “Ah that ye understood my word: ‘Do ever what ye

will—but first be such as CAN WILL.’”



Par. 5.



Here we have a description of the kind of altruism Nietzsche exacted

from higher men. It is really a comment upon “The Bestowing Virtue” (see

Note on Chapter XXII.).



Par. 6.



This refers, of course, to the reception pioneers of Nietzsche’s stamp

meet with at the hands of their contemporaries.



Par. 8.



Nietzsche teaches that nothing is stable,—not even values,—not

even the concepts good and evil. He likens life unto a stream. But

foot-bridges and railings span the stream, and they seem to stand

firm. Many will be reminded of good and evil when they look upon these

structures; for thus these same values stand over the stream of life,

and life flows on beneath them and leaves them standing. When, however,

winter comes and the stream gets frozen, many inquire: “Should not

everything—STAND STILL? Fundamentally everything standeth still.” But

soon the spring cometh and with it the thaw-wind. It breaks the ice, and

the ice breaks down the foot-bridges and railings, whereupon everything

is swept away. This state of affairs, according to Nietzsche, has now

been reached. “Oh, my brethren, is not everything AT PRESENT IN FLUX?

Have not all railings and foot-bridges fallen into the water? Who would

still HOLD ON to ‘good’ and ‘evil’?”


