Chapter LVII. The Convalescent.



We meet with several puzzles here. Zarathustra calls himself the

advocate of the circle (the Eternal Recurrence of all things), and he

calls this doctrine his abysmal thought. In the last verse of the

first paragraph, however, after hailing his deepest thought, he cries:

“Disgust, disgust, disgust!” We know Nietzsche’s ideal man was that

“world-approving, exuberant, and vivacious creature, who has not only

learnt to compromise and arrange with that which was and is, but wishes

to have it again, AS IT WAS AND IS, for all eternity insatiably calling

out da capo, not only to himself, but to the whole piece and play” (see

Note on Chapter XLII.). But if one ask oneself what the conditions to

such an attitude are, one will realise immediately how utterly different

Nietzsche was from his ideal. The man who insatiably cries da capo to

himself and to the whole of his mise-en-scene, must be in a position to

desire every incident in his life to be repeated, not once, but

again and again eternally. Now, Nietzsche’s life had been too full of

disappointments, illness, unsuccessful struggles, and snubs, to allow of

his thinking of the Eternal Recurrence without loathing—hence probably

the words of the last verse.



In verses 15 and 16, we have Nietzsche declaring himself an evolutionist

in the broadest sense—that is to say, that he believes in the

Development Hypothesis as the description of the process by which

species have originated. Now, to understand his position correctly

we must show his relationship to the two greatest of modern

evolutionists—Darwin and Spencer. As a philosopher, however, Nietzsche

does not stand or fall by his objections to the Darwinian or Spencerian

cosmogony. He never laid claim to a very profound knowledge of biology,

and his criticism is far more valuable as the attitude of a fresh mind

than as that of a specialist towards the question. Moreover, in his

objections many difficulties are raised which are not settled by an

appeal to either of the men above mentioned. We have given Nietzsche’s

definition of life in the Note on Chapter LVI., par. 10. Still, there

remains a hope that Darwin and Nietzsche may some day become reconciled

by a new description of the processes by which varieties occur. The

appearance of varieties among animals and of “sporting plants” in

the vegetable kingdom, is still shrouded in mystery, and the question

whether this is not precisely the ground on which Darwin and Nietzsche

will meet, is an interesting one. The former says in his “Origin of
