Species”, concerning the causes of variability: “...there are two

factors, namely, the nature of the organism, and the nature of the

conditions. THE FORMER SEEMS TO BE MUCH THE MORE IMPORTANT (The italics

are mine.), for nearly similar variations sometimes arise under, as

far as we can judge, dissimilar conditions; and on the other hand,

dissimilar variations arise under conditions which appear to be

nearly uniform.” Nietzsche, recognising this same truth, would ascribe

practically all the importance to the “highest functionaries in the

organism, in which the life-will appears as an active and formative

principle,” and except in certain cases (where passive organisms alone

are concerned) would not give such a prominent place to the influence

of environment. Adaptation, according to him, is merely a secondary

activity, a mere re-activity, and he is therefore quite opposed to

Spencer’s definition: “Life is the continuous adjustment of internal

relations to external relations.” Again in the motive force behind

animal and plant life, Nietzsche disagrees with Darwin. He

transforms the “Struggle for Existence”—the passive and involuntary

condition—into the “Struggle for Power,” which is active and creative,

and much more in harmony with Darwin’s own view, given above, concerning

the importance of the organism itself. The change is one of such

far-reaching importance that we cannot dispose of it in a breath, as a

mere play upon words. “Much is reckoned higher than life itself by the

living one.” Nietzsche says that to speak of the activity of life as a

“struggle for existence,” is to state the case inadequately. He warns us

not to confound Malthus with nature. There is something more than

this struggle between the organic beings on this earth; want, which is

supposed to bring this struggle about, is not so common as is supposed;

some other force must be operative. The Will to Power is this force,

“the instinct of self-preservation is only one of the indirect and most

frequent results thereof.” A certain lack of acumen in psychological

questions and the condition of affairs in England at the time Darwin

wrote, may both, according to Nietzsche, have induced the renowned

naturalist to describe the forces of nature as he did in his “Origin of

Species”.



In verses 28, 29, and 30 of the second portion of this discourse we meet

with a doctrine which, at first sight, seems to be merely “le manoir

a l’envers,” indeed one English critic has actually said of Nietzsche,

that “Thus Spake Zarathustra” is no more than a compendium of modern

views and maxims turned upside down. Examining these heterodox
