pronouncements a little more closely, however, we may possibly perceive

their truth. Regarding good and evil as purely relative values, it

stands to reason that what may be bad or evil in a given man, relative

to a certain environment, may actually be good if not highly virtuous

in him relative to a certain other environment. If this hypothetical man

represent the ascending line of life—that is to say, if he promise all

that which is highest in a Graeco-Roman sense, then it is likely that

he will be condemned as wicked if introduced into the society of men

representing the opposite and descending line of life.



By depriving a man of his wickedness—more particularly nowadays—

therefore, one may unwittingly be doing violence to the greatest in him.

It may be an outrage against his wholeness, just as the lopping-off of a

leg would be. Fortunately, the natural so-called “wickedness” of higher

men has in a certain measure been able to resist this lopping process

which successive slave-moralities have practised; but signs are not

wanting which show that the noblest wickedness is fast vanishing from

society—the wickedness of courage and determination—and that Nietzsche

had good reasons for crying: “Ah, that (man’s) baddest is so very small!

Ah, that his best is so very small. What is good? To be brave is good!

It is the good war which halloweth every cause!” (see also par. 5,

“Higher Man”).



Chapter LX. The Seven Seals.



This is a final paean which Zarathustra sings to Eternity and the

marriage-ring of rings, the ring of the Eternal Recurrence.



 ...



PART IV.



In my opinion this part is Nietzsche’s open avowal that all his

philosophy, together with all his hopes, enthusiastic outbursts,

blasphemies, prolixities, and obscurities, were merely so many gifts

laid at the feet of higher men. He had no desire to save the world. What

he wished to determine was: Who is to be master of the world? This is

a very different thing. He came to save higher men;—to give them that

freedom by which, alone, they can develop and reach their zenith (see

Note on Chapter LIV., end). It has been argued, and with considerable
