force, that no such philosophy is required by higher men, that, as a

matter of fact, higher men, by virtue of their constitutions always, do

stand Beyond Good and Evil, and never allow anything to stand in the

way of their complete growth. Nietzsche, however, was evidently not so

confident about this. He would probably have argued that we only see the

successful cases. Being a great man himself, he was well aware of the

dangers threatening greatness in our age. In “Beyond Good and Evil” he

writes: “There are few pains so grievous as to have seen, divined,

or experienced how an exceptional man has missed his way and

deteriorated...” He knew “from his painfullest recollections on what

wretched obstacles promising developments of the highest rank have

hitherto usually gone to pieces, broken down, sunk, and become

contemptible.” Now in Part IV. we shall find that his strongest

temptation to descend to the feeling of “pity” for his contemporaries,

is the “cry for help” which he hears from the lips of the higher men

exposed to the dreadful danger of their modern environment.



Chapter LXI. The Honey Sacrifice.



In the fourteenth verse of this discourse Nietzsche defines the solemn

duty he imposed upon himself: “Become what thou art.” Surely the

criticism which has been directed against this maxim must all fall to

the ground when it is remembered, once and for all, that Nietzsche’s

teaching was never intended to be other than an esoteric one. “I am a

law only for mine own,” he says emphatically, “I am not a law for

all.” It is of the greatest importance to humanity that its highest

individuals should be allowed to attain to their full development; for,

only by means of its heroes can the human race be led forward step by

step to higher and yet higher levels. “Become what thou art” applied

to all, of course, becomes a vicious maxim; it is to be hoped, however,

that we may learn in time that the same action performed by a given

number of men, loses its identity precisely that same number of

times.—“Quod licet Jovi, non licet bovi.”



At the last eight verses many readers may be tempted to laugh. In

England we almost always laugh when a man takes himself seriously at

anything save sport. And there is of course no reason why the reader

should not be hilarious.—A certain greatness is requisite, both in

order to be sublime and to have reverence for the sublime. Nietzsche

earnestly believed that the Zarathustra-kingdom—his dynasty of a
