thousand years—would one day come; if he had not believed it so

earnestly, if every artist in fact had not believed so earnestly in

his Hazar, whether of ten, fifteen, a hundred, or a thousand years, we

should have lost all our higher men; they would have become pessimists,

suicides, or merchants. If the minor poet and philosopher has made us

shy of the prophetic seriousness which characterized an Isaiah or a

Jeremiah, it is surely our loss and the minor poet’s gain.



Chapter LXII. The Cry of Distress.



We now meet with Zarathustra in extraordinary circumstances. He is

confronted with Schopenhauer and tempted by the old Soothsayer to commit

the sin of pity. “I have come that I may seduce thee to thy last sin!”

 says the Soothsayer to Zarathustra. It will be remembered that in

Schopenhauer’s ethics, pity is elevated to the highest place among the

virtues, and very consistently too, seeing that the Weltanschauung is

a pessimistic one. Schopenhauer appeals to Nietzsche’s deepest and

strongest sentiment—his sympathy for higher men. “Why dost thou conceal

thyself?” he cries. “It is THE HIGHER MAN that calleth for thee!”

 Zarathustra is almost overcome by the Soothsayer’s pleading, as he

had been once already in the past, but he resists him step by step. At

length he can withstand him no longer, and, on the plea that the higher

man is on his ground and therefore under his protection, Zarathustra

departs in search of him, leaving Schopenhauer—a higher man in

Nietzsche’s opinion—in the cave as a guest.



Chapter LXIII. Talk with the Kings.



On his way Zarathustra meets two more higher men of his time; two

kings cross his path. They are above the average modern type; for their

instincts tell them what real ruling is, and they despise the mockery

which they have been taught to call “Reigning.” “We ARE NOT the first

men,” they say, “and have nevertheless to STAND FOR them: of this

imposture have we at last become weary and disgusted.” It is the kings

who tell Zarathustra: “There is no sorer misfortune in all human destiny

than when the mighty of the earth are not also the first men. There

everything becometh false and distorted and monstrous.” The kings are

also asked by Zarathustra to accept the shelter of his cave, whereupon

he proceeds on his way.


