Chapter LXIV. The Leech.



Among the higher men whom Zarathustra wishes to save, is also the

scientific specialist—the man who honestly and scrupulously pursues his

investigations, as Darwin did, in one department of knowledge. “I love

him who liveth in order to know, and seeketh to know in order that the

Superman may hereafter live. Thus seeketh he his own down-going.”

 “The spiritually conscientious one,” he is called in this discourse.

Zarathustra steps on him unawares, and the slave of science, bleeding

from the violence he has done to himself by his self-imposed task,

speaks proudly of his little sphere of knowledge—his little hand’s

breadth of ground on Zarathustra’s territory, philosophy. “Where mine

honesty ceaseth,” says the true scientific specialist, “there am I blind

and want also to be blind. Where I want to know, however, there want

I also to be honest—namely, severe, rigorous, restricted, cruel, and

inexorable.” Zarathustra greatly respecting this man, invites him too to

the cave, and then vanishes in answer to another cry for help.



Chapter LXV. The Magician.



The Magician is of course an artist, and Nietzsche’s intimate knowledge

of perhaps the greatest artist of his age rendered the selection of

Wagner, as the type in this discourse, almost inevitable. Most readers

will be acquainted with the facts relating to Nietzsche’s and Wagner’s

friendship and ultimate separation. As a boy and a youth Nietzsche had

shown such a remarkable gift for music that it had been a question at

one time whether he should not perhaps give up everything else in order

to develop this gift, but he became a scholar notwithstanding, although

he never entirely gave up composing, and playing the piano. While

still in his teens, he became acquainted with Wagner’s music and

grew passionately fond of it. Long before he met Wagner he must have

idealised him in his mind to an extent which only a profoundly artistic

nature could have been capable of. Nietzsche always had high ideals for

humanity. If one were asked whether, throughout his many changes, there

was yet one aim, one direction, and one hope to which he held fast,

one would be forced to reply in the affirmative and declare that aim,

direction, and hope to have been “the elevation of the type man.”

 Now, when Nietzsche met Wagner he was actually casting about for an

incarnation of his dreams for the German people, and we have only to

remember his youth (he was twenty-one when he was introduced to Wagner),
