

Zarathustra now meets the last pope, and, in a poetical form, we get

Nietzsche’s description of the course Judaism and Christianity pursued

before they reached their final break-up in Atheism, Agnosticism, and

the like. The God of a strong, warlike race—the God of Israel—is a

jealous, revengeful God. He is a power that can be pictured and endured

only by a hardy and courageous race, a race rich enough to sacrifice and

to lose in sacrifice. The image of this God degenerates with the people

that appropriate it, and gradually He becomes a God of love—“soft and

mellow,” a lower middle-class deity, who is “pitiful.” He can no longer

be a God who requires sacrifice, for we ourselves are no longer rich

enough for that. The tables are therefore turned upon Him; HE must

sacrifice to us. His pity becomes so great that he actually does

sacrifice something to us—His only begotten Son. Such a process

carried to its logical conclusions must ultimately end in His own

destruction, and thus we find the pope declaring that God was one day

suffocated by His all-too-great pity. What follows is clear enough.

Zarathustra recognises another higher man in the ex-pope and sends him

too as a guest to the cave.



Chapter LXVII. The Ugliest Man.



This discourse contains perhaps the boldest of Nietzsche’s suggestions

concerning Atheism, as well as some extremely penetrating remarks upon

the sentiment of pity. Zarathustra comes across the repulsive creature

sitting on the wayside, and what does he do? He manifests the only

correct feelings that can be manifested in the presence of any great

misery—that is to say, shame, reverence, embarrassment. Nietzsche

detested the obtrusive and gushing pity that goes up to misery without

a blush either on its cheek or in its heart—the pity which is only

another form of self-glorification. “Thank God that I am not like

thee!”—only this self-glorifying sentiment can lend a well-constituted

man the impudence to SHOW his pity for the cripple and the

ill-constituted. In the presence of the ugliest man Nietzsche

blushes,—he blushes for his race; his own particular kind of

altruism—the altruism that might have prevented the existence of this

man—strikes him with all its force. He will have the world otherwise.

He will have a world where one need not blush for one’s fellows—hence

his appeal to us to love only our children’s land, the land undiscovered

in the remotest sea.
