

Zarathustra calls the ugliest man the murderer of God! Certainly, this

is one aspect of a certain kind of Atheism—the Atheism of the man who

reveres beauty to such an extent that his own ugliness, which outrages

him, must be concealed from every eye lest it should not be respected as

Zarathustra respected it. If there be a God, He too must be evaded. His

pity must be foiled. But God is ubiquitous and omniscient. Therefore,

for the really GREAT ugly man, He must not exist. “Their pity IS it from

which I flee away,” he says—that is to say: “It is from their want of

reverence and lack of shame in presence of my great misery!” The ugliest

man despises himself; but Zarathustra said in his Prologue: “I love

the great despisers because they are the great adorers, and arrows of

longing for the other shore.” He therefore honours the ugliest man: sees

height in his self-contempt, and invites him to join the other higher

men in the cave.



Chapter LXVIII. The Voluntary Beggar.



In this discourse, we undoubtedly have the ideal Buddhist, if not

Gautama Buddha himself. Nietzsche had the greatest respect for Buddhism,

and almost wherever he refers to it in his works, it is in terms of

praise. He recognised that though Buddhism is undoubtedly a religion for

decadents, its decadent values emanate from the higher and not, as in

Christianity, from the lower grades of society. In Aphorism 20 of “The

Antichrist”, he compares it exhaustively with Christianity, and

the result of his investigation is very much in favour of the older

religion. Still, he recognised a most decided Buddhistic influence

in Christ’s teaching, and the words in verses 29, 30, and 31 are very

reminiscent of his views in regard to the Christian Savior.



The figure of Christ has been introduced often enough into fiction, and

many scholars have undertaken to write His life according to their own

lights, but few perhaps have ever attempted to present Him to us bereft

of all those characteristics which a lack of the sense of harmony has

attached to His person through the ages in which His doctrines have been

taught. Now Nietzsche disagreed entirely with Renan’s view, that Christ

was “le grand maitre en ironie”; in Aphorism 31 of “The Antichrist”,

he says that he (Nietzsche) always purged his picture of the Humble

Nazarene of all those bitter and spiteful outbursts which, in view of

the struggle the first Christians went through, may very well have been
