added to the original character by Apologists and Sectarians who, at

that time, could ill afford to consider nice psychological points,

seeing that what they needed, above all, was a wrangling and abusive

deity. These two conflicting halves in the character of the Christ of

the Gospels, which no sound psychology can ever reconcile, Nietzsche

always kept distinct in his own mind; he could not credit the same man

with sentiments sometimes so noble and at other times so vulgar, and

in presenting us with this new portrait of the Saviour, purged of all

impurities, Nietzsche rendered military honours to a foe, which far

exceed in worth all that His most ardent disciples have ever claimed for

Him. In verse 26 we are vividly reminded of Herbert Spencer’s words “‘Le

mariage de convenance’ is legalised prostitution.”



Chapter LXIX. The Shadow.



Here we have a description of that courageous and wayward spirit that

literally haunts the footsteps of every great thinker and every great

leader; sometimes with the result that it loses all aims, all hopes,

and all trust in a definite goal. It is the case of the bravest and

most broad-minded men of to-day. These literally shadow the most daring

movements in the science and art of their generation; they completely

lose their bearings and actually find themselves, in the end, without a

way, a goal, or a home. “On every surface have I already sat!...I become

thin, I am almost equal to a shadow!” At last, in despair, such men

do indeed cry out: “Nothing is true; all is permitted,” and then they

become mere wreckage. “Too much hath become clear unto me: now nothing

mattereth to me any more. Nothing liveth any longer that I love,—how

should I still love myself! Have I still a goal? Where is MY home?”

 Zarathustra realises the danger threatening such a man. “Thy danger is

not small, thou free spirit and wanderer,” he says. “Thou hast had a bad

day. See that a still worse evening doth not overtake thee!” The danger

Zarathustra refers to is precisely this, that even a prison may seem a

blessing to such a man. At least the bars keep him in a place of rest;

a place of confinement, at its worst, is real. “Beware lest in the end

a narrow faith capture thee,” says Zarathustra, “for now everything that

is narrow and fixed seduceth and tempteth thee.”



Chapter LXX. Noontide.



At the noon of life Nietzsche said he entered the world; with him
