says, and his final command to the higher men is, “LEARN, I pray you—to

laugh.” All that is GOOD, in Nietzsche’s sense, is cheerful. To be able

to crack a joke about one’s deepest feelings is the greatest test of

their value. The man who does not laugh, like the man who does not make

faces, is already a buffoon at heart.



“What hath hitherto been the greatest sin here on earth? Was it not the

word of him who said: ‘Woe unto them that laugh now!’ Did he himself

find no cause for laughter on the earth? Then he sought badly. A child

even findeth cause for it.”



Chapter LXXIV. The Song of Melancholy.



After his address to the higher men, Zarathustra goes out into the

open to recover himself. Meanwhile the magician (Wagner), seizing the

opportunity in order to draw them all into his net once more, sings the

Song of Melancholy.



Chapter LXXV. Science.



The only one to resist the “melancholy voluptuousness” of his art, is

the spiritually conscientious one—the scientific specialist of whom we

read in the discourse entitled “The Leech”. He takes the harp from the

magician and cries for air, while reproving the musician in the style

of “The Case of Wagner”. When the magician retaliates by saying that the

spiritually conscientious one could have understood little of his song,

the latter replies: “Thou praisest me in that thou separatest me from

thyself.” The speech of the scientific man to his fellow higher men is

well worth studying. By means of it, Nietzsche pays a high tribute to

the honesty of the true specialist, while, in representing him as the

only one who can resist the demoniacal influence of the magician’s

music, he elevates him at a stroke, above all those present. Zarathustra

and the spiritually conscientious one join issue at the end on the

question of the proper place of “fear” in man’s history, and Nietzsche

avails himself of the opportunity in order to restate his views

concerning the relation of courage to humanity. It is precisely because

courage has played the most important part in our development that

he would not see it vanish from among our virtues to-day. “...courage

seemeth to me the entire primitive history of man.”


