Ass-Festival, it suddenly occurs to him, that he is concerned with a

ceremony that may not be without its purpose, as something foolish but

necessary—a recreation for wise men. He is therefore highly pleased

that the higher men have all blossomed forth; they therefore require

new festivals,—“A little valiant nonsense, some divine service and

ass-festival, some old joyful Zarathustra fool, some blusterer to blow

their souls bright.”



He tells them not to forget that night and the ass-festival, for “such

things only the convalescent devise! And should ye celebrate it again,”

 he concludes, “do it from love to yourselves, do it also from love to

me! And in remembrance of ME!”



Chapter LXXIX. The Drunken Song.



It were the height of presumption to attempt to fix any particular

interpretation of my own to the words of this song. With what has gone

before, the reader, while reading it as poetry, should be able to seek

and find his own meaning in it. The doctrine of the Eternal Recurrence

appears for the last time here, in an art-form. Nietzsche lays stress

upon the fact that all happiness, all delight, longs for repetitions,

and just as a child cries “Again! Again!” to the adult who happens to

be amusing him; so the man who sees a meaning, and a joyful meaning, in

existence must also cry “Again!” and yet “Again!” to all his life.



Chapter LXXX. The Sign.



In this discourse, Nietzsche disassociates himself finally from the

higher men, and by the symbol of the lion, wishes to convey to us that

he has won over and mastered the best and the most terrible in nature.

That great power and tenderness are kin, was already his belief in

1875—eight years before he wrote this speech, and when the birds and

the lion come to him, it is because he is the embodiment of the two

qualities. All that is terrible and great in nature, the higher men are

not yet prepared for; for they retreat horror-stricken into the cave

when the lion springs at them; but Zarathustra makes not a move towards

them. He was tempted to them on the previous day, he says, but “That

hath had its time! My suffering and my fellow-suffering,—what matter

about them! Do I then strive after HAPPINESS? I strive after my work!

Well! the lion hath come, my children are nigh. Zarathustra hath grown
