to the goodness of the people, but because of the struggles of their

evil instincts.



“WITH THE HELP OF FAVOURABLE MEASURES GREAT INDIVIDUALS MIGHT BE REARED

WHO WOULD BE BOTH DIFFERENT FROM AND HIGHER THAN THOSE WHO HERETOFORE

HAVE OWED THEIR EXISTENCE TO MERE CHANCE. Here we may still be hopeful:

in the rearing of exceptional men.”



The notion of rearing the Superman is only a new form of an ideal

Nietzsche already had in his youth, that “THE OBJECT OF MANKIND SHOULD

LIE IN ITS HIGHEST INDIVIDUALS” (or, as he writes in “Schopenhauer as

Educator”: “Mankind ought constantly to be striving to produce great

men—this and nothing else is its duty.”) But the ideals he most revered

in those days are no longer held to be the highest types of men. No,

around this future ideal of a coming humanity—the Superman—the poet

spread the veil of becoming. Who can tell to what glorious heights man

can still ascend? That is why, after having tested the worth of our

noblest ideal—that of the Saviour, in the light of the new valuations,

the poet cries with passionate emphasis in “Zarathustra”:



“Never yet hath there been a Superman. Naked have I seen both of them,

the greatest and the smallest man:—



All-too-similar are they still to each other. Verily even the greatest

found I—all-too-human!”—



The phrase “the rearing of the Superman,” has very often been

misunderstood. By the word “rearing,” in this case, is meant the act of

modifying by means of new and higher values—values which, as laws and

guides of conduct and opinion, are now to rule over mankind. In general

the doctrine of the Superman can only be understood correctly in

conjunction with other ideas of the author’s, such as:—the Order

of Rank, the Will to Power, and the Transvaluation of all Values. He

assumes that Christianity, as a product of the resentment of the botched

and the weak, has put in ban all that is beautiful, strong, proud, and

powerful, in fact all the qualities resulting from strength, and that,

in consequence, all forces which tend to promote or elevate life have

been seriously undermined. Now, however, a new table of valuations

must be placed over mankind—namely, that of the strong, mighty, and

magnificent man, overflowing with life and elevated to his zenith—the
